# Air-Conditioning-System
The basic objective of this project is to condition the air(maintain temperature...). i.e if temperature is hot it will try to cool the system and if temperature is cold it will try to heat the system until it maintains temperature within normal range(20-25) degree Celsius in this case. All we have to do is read analog data from LM35 Temperature sensor which is analog voltage. Convert it into binary data by ADC. The binary data from ADC has to be ASCII encoded to display it in LCD. The data is fetched into uC. On the basis of data read uC performs the control operation. Whether to cool or to heat the system or neither heat nor cool. LCD is included for better user interface and some visual information.  Software(Program): The entire programs is divided into following functions:  lcdCmd();to give command to LCD lcdData();to give data to LCD lcdReady();to determine whether or not LCD is busy or not so as to ensure that character sent by us will be displayed properly. msDelay();To generate delays in the program. adcRead();To read data from ADC,ie converted data. convert();To convert binary data into ASCII encoded digits. update();To update temperature value while the temperature is being changed. display();To display the ASCII encoded digits in proper decimal form in LCD. motorcontrol();The entire control function is done here. These are all about functions used.  i.Execution of program starts from main function. ii.First few line of the main function initializes ports and various other i/o pin values to ensure appropriate initial condition iii.Then it calls motorcontrol function iv.It reads data from ADC using adcRead function. v.After data is read from ADC,it is determined which range temperature falls into. vi.after suitable range is known,the program control goes inside one of the while loop, vii.Lets consider a a specific condition of level one fan speed. viii.If temperature is in between 25-30 degree Celsius,control enters inside associated while loop. ix.The template is first displayed to convey status like.  TEMR:25 C FAN ON SPEED: LEVEL ONE Now again updated temperature is read and is updated in the LCD by update function.This process maintains the status in LCD while temperature is changed. Also,the logic to control speed of the fan at the same time is done using PWM. The following code does rotate fan at certain minimum speed: msDelay(25); MTR=0; msDelay(75); MTR=1; MTR is the identifier for pin connected to motor circuit. PWM is obtained in MTR. It is used to drive relay which in turn drives motor with the switching equipment TIP 122 darlington pair transistor. if MTR is low motor turns on. and if MTR is high motor turns off. This is because relay turns on only when input to it is low.  Lets suppose a time frame of 100ms.The time is just elapsing in a frame of 100ms continuously.If we make motor on for 25ms and make it off for 75ms and continue so on, because of inertia of rotor, the motor will appear moving with certain speed. Likewise following code runs motor with slightly higher speed; msDelay(50); MTR=0; msDelay(50); MTR=1; In this way until temperature is within 25-30 the while loop executes. Until temperature is within its range motor moves with speed level one(Which we designed) with changing temperature being updated. If temperature falls out, the control exits from while loop. The new temperature is again read. Now again it may enter any while loop. And associate task is carried out in similar way.
